README.md, before:

# Unified Field Theory (UFT)

## Overview

Welcome to the **Unified Field Theory (UFT)** repository! This project presents a new approach to unifying fundamental forces and particles, exploring concepts in physics from inertia to dark matter and gravitational effects. By rethinking how wave functions contribute to mass, inertia, and gravitational fields, this theory attempts to provide fresh insights into the fundamental workings of our universe.

This work is a culmination of hypotheses and theoretical frameworks developed to explore the properties of matter, energy, and spacetime. 

## Key Concepts

### 1. **Wave Functions and Inertia**
   - **Hypothesis**: Inertia arises from wave functions emitted by mass, propagating outward at the speed of light (c). When a mass accelerates, the new wave emitted interacts with existing waves, causing resistance to motion. This hypothesis reframes inertia as a natural consequence of wave interaction, challenging traditional views on mass and motion.
   - **Application**: This framework could redefine how we understand force, acceleration, and momentum at macroscopic and quantum scales.

### 2. **Gravity and Gravitational Waves**
   - **Hypothesis**: Gravity is described as a field emitted by wave functions of mass. The interactions of these wave fields create gravitational effects that align with observations of spacetime warping and black hole phenomena.
   - **Exploration**: This approach allows for a continuous gravitational field even at the quantum level, suggesting a more unified view of mass and gravitational attraction.

### 3. **Dark Matter as Transient Wave Structures**
   - **Hypothesis**: Dark matter may consist of unstable wave functions or "proto-particles" that nearly form stable structures but decay quickly. These quasi-stable fields collectively create gravitational effects without interacting with light.
   - **Implications**: By modeling dark matter as transient wave structures, this theory offers a new perspective on the elusive nature of dark matter and its gravitational impact on the cosmos.

### 4. **Relativistic Time Dilation and Wave Compression**
   - **Hypothesis**: Time dilation with speed could emerge from the interaction and compression of wave functions at high velocities. As objects accelerate, the wave function’s oscillations slow, resulting in time dilation observed at relativistic speeds.
   - **Explanation**: This hypothesis reinterprets time as a function of wave interactions rather than a fixed component of spacetime, offering insights into time dilation as a wave-based phenomenon.

### 5. **Matter and Temperature at Quantum Scales**
   - **Concept**: Matter can be viewed as a “locus of oscillation” within a wave cell. At near-zero temperatures, the wave cell spreads, failing to localize the wave structure, which may explain the behavior of matter as it approaches absolute zero.

## Current Progress and Goals

This repository includes:
- **Hypothetical Frameworks**: Descriptions of wave-based models for inertia, gravity, and dark matter.
- **Mathematical and Computational Models**: Ongoing development of equations and simulations to test these theories.
- **Supporting Research**: Files and notes on alternative interpretations of quantum mechanics, relativistic physics, and cosmology.

## Contributing

Before we dive into the theory, a bit of housekeeping. This project is open to collaborative insights and suggestions. If you're interested in contributing to the Unified Field Theory development, please open a pull request or reach out with feedback!

- **To Discuss**        see [Discussions](https://github.com/cpsource/UFT/discussions)
- **Repository Issues** see [Issues](https://github.com/cpsource/UFT/issues)

## The Unified Field Theory (UFT) Framework

Current theories discuss free space. More detail here: [README-properties-of-free-space.md](https://t2m.io/pw6z7c7)

Fundamentally, this **Unified Field Theory (UFT)** proposes that every entity radiates a field outward at the speed of light, **c**. This framework will use the concept of this outward-radiating field to derive various effects that, today, are considered fundamental properties of matter.

Graphically, and simply, you can visualize this.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://unifyinggravity.com/theunatom.jpeg" width="200" alt="The Unatom Image">
</div>

(An interesting side note: depending on your monitor, you will see four interfearance patterns radiating outward at the four corners of the compass. It
has to do with the concentric circles being projected onto your monitors grid of pixels.)

Two atoms would interact with their projected fields. This can be visualized.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://unifyinggravity.com/twounatoms.jpeg" width="200" alt="The Unatom Image">
</div>

In the following sections, we will explore each of these effects in turn and demonstrate how they can be explained through the principles of **UFT**.

To dive into this project, step into each section in turn, as the following concepts will build on the preceding ones.

### Inertia

In classical thinking, inertia is defined as the resistance of a mass (a property) to a change in velocity. More detail here: [README-define-inertia.md](https://t2m.io/RWx6nNj)

Using **UFT** we define inertia as the interaction between a current radiated field and the next
one generated as the object moves. More detail here: [README-fascinating-hypothesis.md](https://t2m.io/iiFMKkO)
<br>
<br>
See also: [README-more-thinking.md](https://t2m.io/aLAOv3s)

### Mass

**UFT** defines mass. More detail here: [README-define-mass.md](https://t2m.io/e9RAVQW)

### Atomic Cohesion

**UFT** explains atomic cohesion. More detail here: [README-snow-plow-analogy.md](https://t2m.io/2t0iUHY)

### Electrostatic and Magnetic Forces

**UFT** explains electrostatic and magnetic forces. More detail here: [README-electrostatic-and-magnetic.md](https://t2m.io/BTMt6eW)

(Another curious side note: If you project a circular field onto a grid, you get something resembling a magnetic field. Consider
these two images:

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center;">
  <img src="http://unifyinggravity.com/earthmas.gif" width="200" alt="Earth Magnetism">
  <img src="https://unifyinggravity.com/magnetism.jpeg" width="200" alt="Magnetic Interfearance">
</div>

### Warping Space-Time

**UFT** Speaks to the warping of Space-Time. More details here: [README-space-time.md](https://t2m.io/zjVrZAT)

### Dark Matter

**UFT** sees dark matter as bits trying to become stable, but they mostly fail. More detail here: [README-dark-matter.md](https://t2m.io/dqht6sN)

### Quantum Entanglement

Classical quantum entanglement properties detailed here: [README-spooky-action.md](https://t2m.io/neagq7w)

**UFT** explains quantum entanglement. More detail here: [README-spooky-action-at-a-distance.md](https://t2m.io/i2Z6eqU) and here: [README-more-on-entanglement.md](https://t2m.io/mPQY3vd)

## Radioactive Decay

Classically, radioactive decay is detailed here: [README-decay.md](https://t2m.io/2oUoGUf)

**UFT** sees it somewhat differently. More details here: [README-decay-uft.md](https://t2m.io/ZMTFqh9)

### Bose–Einstein Condensate

**UFT** explains Bose-Einstein condensate. More detail here: [README-zero-k.md](https://t2m.io/JQCJn6p)

### Black Holes

Black holes do radiate heat. More detain here: [README-black-hole-heat.md](https://t2m.io/K3ybx2d)

**UFT** discusses black holes. More detains here: [README-more-on-black-holes.md](https://t2m.io/UL2rHD5)

### Relativism

**UFT** redefines thinking about relativism. More details here: [README-relativism.md](https://t2m.io/bcX9wFa)

### Time

**UFT** does not operate in the time dimension as time is considered a derived quantity.

Traditional theories have not settled on whether time moves in steps or transistions smoothly. More details here: [README-time-quanta.md](https://t2m.io/9qGjEnX)

How can we remove time from our considerations?

It's done all the time. In electrical engineering, we can move from the time domain to the frequency domain
using forier analysis.

Computing offers another example.

A digital computer lays out a problem in a series of time steps. More details here: [README-computing-stages.md](https://t2m.io/5zQ9i76)

However, we can remove time from the solution by considering an analog computer. More details here: [README-analog-computing.md](https://t2m.io/aftdKzA)

More details on this point are here: [README-more-on-time.md](https://t2m.io/rcuMkk8)

Time must be a relative quantity. When I look at the 'time' it took, we are comparing our 'time' with the 'time' of the observation. More details here: [README-time-is-relative.md](https://t2m.io/QK1xNy9)

Time must therefore be relative. More details here: [README-time-is-derived.md](https://t2m.io/u0WvK1q)

Finally, how does **UFT** relate? More details here: [README-time-and-my-theory.md](https://t2m.io/xMfBBn1)

<!--
#[README-more-on-time.md](https://t2m.io/rcuMkk8)
#[README-time-quanta.md](https://t2m.io/9qGjEnX)
#[README-time-is-relative.md](https://t2m.io/QK1xNy9)
#[README-time-is-derived.md](https://t2m.io/u0WvK1q)
#[README-computing-stages.md](https://t2m.io/5zQ9i76)
#[README-analog-computing.md](https://t2m.io/aftdKzA)
#[README-time-and-my-theory.md](https://t2m.io/xMfBBn1)
-->

### Derive $c$ Without Time

More details here: [README-derive-c-without-time.md](https://t2m.io/aYRXu7q)

## Derivations

**UFT** derives fundamentals such as:

- Derive $F = m \cdot a$ [See Derivation](https://t2m.io/i1SNwFO)
- Derive $F = \frac{G m_1 m_2}{r^2}$ [See Derivaton](https://t2m.io/qifOSa0)

## Explanations

### **UFT** Explains the double slit photon experiment

In this experiment, photons are beamed at a barrier with two slits, and the results are
projected onto a screen. Instead of seeing the photon as a particle, a wave pattern emerges.

Current physics writes this off as the duality of light without really offering an
underlying explanation. More details here: [README-light-experiments.md](https://t2m.io/bqi4qdA)

**Could my Unified Field Theory (UFT) explain the two-slit experiment without invoking wave-particle duality?**

In my UFT framework, a photon (or any particle) is defined not as a dual entity but as a single phenomenon characterized by continuous radiation. This radiation forms a “locus,” which we interpret as the particle itself. According to this view, when a photon moves through the slits in the two-slit experiment, its wave-like nature is naturally revealed due to the radiating field, rather than requiring duality.

In other words:
- The photon radiates continuously, forming a field with a specific locus that we perceive as the particle.
- As this radiation passes through the slits, it interacts with both slits simultaneously, producing the interference pattern in a way consistent with wave behavior.
- When we observe the photon on the screen, we identify a precise point within this radiative field, which appears as the “particle” without requiring it to switch between particle and wave states.

Could this framework of continuous radiation, defining the photon as a locus within a radiative field, account for the observed interference pattern in the two-slit experiment—thereby eliminating the need for wave-particle duality?

More details here [README-UFT-and-two-slit.md](https://t2m.io/SfQAqo1)

### The Michaelson-Morley experiment is consistent with **UFT**

In the context of the Unified Field Theory (UFT), the Michelson-Morley experiment can be reinterpreted by considering that light (or any particle) does not need a medium like the luminiferous aether because each photon, or particle, radiates its own wave field. Here’s how UFT could explain the key findings: [README-Michelson-Morley.md](https://t2m.io/LuZQfMB)

### Reexamine experiments

Unified Field Theory (UFT), offers fresh interpretations for several key experiments in physics.
These include:

1. **The Double-Slit Experiment**
2. **The Photoelectric Effect**
3. **Atomic Emission Spectra**
4. **Compton Scattering**
5. **Quantum Tunneling**
6. **Gravitational Lensing**
7. **Bell’s Theorem and Quantum Entanglement**
8. **Time Dilation and Relativistic Effects**

More details here: [README-reexamine-experiments.md](https://t2m.io/Rf6m3yR)

## Can photons travel at *c* yet have mass ?

In this thought experiment, let’s consider **particle** p₁, a particle with very small mass that, despite its mass, still travels at the speed of light *c*. This is an intriguing scenario because, under classical relativity, a particle with mass cannot reach *c*. However, in the framework of **Unified Field Theory (UFT)**, we can imagine it as a special case where p₁ carries an energy density wave structure, similar to that of a photon but with a small mass component.

Here's a chain of thinking (to be read in order) that gets **UFT** to this position. (We start out at neutrons but move on to photons.) [README-neutrinos.md](https://t2m.io/LBWfo9z)

## Tessellation and Quantum Mechanics

Only certain shapes can completely cover a sphere. **UFT** assigns energy levels to these shapes, and then relates it to Quantum Mechancs.

Read the chain starting here for the development of this concept. [README-tessellation.md](https://t2m.io/aBLTXUM)

## Exploration

Lets explore the hierarchical structure of the universe, starting from the smallest quantum scales and building up through molecular, biological, geological, planetary, and cosmic levels. Each scale operates with unique principles but relies on the foundational rules of previous levels, creating an interdependent system where phenomena like entropy and energy flow across scales. We used graph theory, specifically directed acyclic graphs (DAGs), to illustrate direct and indirect influences between these groups, highlighting how simpler structures give rise to complexity. We examined entropy’s role in increasing disorder and energy’s cumulative presence from atomic particles to galaxies, estimating that the observable universe’s energy—largely originating from the Big Bang—matches predictions based on mass-energy and dark energy distributions today. This layered approach reveals the interconnected nature of physical laws across the scales of existence.

These are to be read in order. At the bottom of each file, just click 'Next' to move on.
<br>
[README-what-is-a-hypergraph.md](https://t2m.io/6z1nvAg)
<br>
[README-what-is-a-graph.md](https://t2m.io/7giHXoX)
<br>
[README-scale-of-things.md](https://t2m.io/41JNV1n)
<br>
[README-groups-of-scale.md](https://t2m.io/7pDT7rR)
<br>
[README-cascading-groups.md](https://t2m.io/XsZWKCp)
<br>
[README-groups-directed-graph.md](https://t2m.io/oA75fxR)
<br>
[README-direct-and-indirect-influences.md](https://t2m.io/hd2PC9A)
<br>
[README-dag-tutorial.md](https://t2m.io/XjHst3Z)
<br>
[README-direct-indirect-influences-by-group.md](https://t2m.io/BVB40NC)
<br>
[README-entropy.md](https://t2m.io/CGdFJ2T)
<br>
[README-total-energy.md](https://t2m.io/cYHPRCJ)
<br>
[README-big-bang-energy.md](https://t2m.io/64uCkBz)
<br>
[README-summary.md](https://t2m.io/8YPd9V1)

<!--
[README-summarize.md](https://t2m.io/Q0tp15y)
-->

## Miscellaneous Musings and work in progress.

What are the implications if we redefine c? [Click Here](https://t2m.io/7SAxanm)
<br>
What about 720-degree symmetry? [Click Here](https://t2m.io/RxdfOLQ)

<!--
## Concepts in no particular order (TODO - Organize!)
[README-relativism.md](https://t2m.io/bcX9wFa)
[README-decay.md](https://t2m.io/2oUoGUf)
[README-decay-uft.md](https://t2m.io/ZMTFqh9)
[README-derive-c-without-time.md](https://t2m.io/aYRXu7q)
[README-space-time.md](https://t2m.io/zjVrZAT)
[README-define-mass.md](https://t2m.io/e9RAVQW)
[README-more-thinking.md](https://t2m.io/aLAOv3s)
[README-properties-of-free-space.md](https://t2m.io/pw6z7c7)
[README-black-hole-heat.md](https://t2m.io/K3ybx2d)
[README-more-on-black-holes.md](https://t2m.io/UL2rHD5)
[README-spooky-action.md](https://t2m.io/neagq7w)
[README-zero-k.md](https://t2m.io/JQCJn6p)
[README-spooky-action-at-a-distance.md](https://t2m.io/i2Z6eqU)
[README-more-on-entanglement.md](https://t2m.io/mPQY3vd)
[README-dark-matter.md](https://t2m.io/dqht6sN)
[README-electrostatic-and-magnetic.md](https://t2m.io/BTMt6eW)
[README-define-inertia.md](https://t2m.io/RWx6nNj)
[README-snow-plow-analogy.md](https://t2m.io/2t0iUHY)
[README-derive-f.md](https://t2m.io/qifOSa0)
[README-derive-fema.md](https://t2m.io/i1SNwFO)
[README-fascinating-hypothesis.md](https://t2m.io/iiFMKkO)
-->

## License

This work is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)**. You are free to share and adapt the material as long as appropriate credit is given.

## About

[About](https://t2m.io/KTAZ44M)

---

*“UFT: Presenting a Unified Field Theory, Now Revealed”*

---

[Podcast](https://cpsource.github.io/UFT/podcast.html)

Commit message:

a random walk through sub-atomic

README.md, after:

# Unified Field Theory (UFT)

## Overview

Welcome to the **Unified Field Theory (UFT)** repository! This project presents a new approach to unifying fundamental forces and particles, exploring concepts in physics from inertia to dark matter and gravitational effects. By rethinking how wave functions contribute to mass, inertia, and gravitational fields, this theory attempts to provide fresh insights into the fundamental workings of our universe.

This work is a culmination of hypotheses and theoretical frameworks developed to explore the properties of matter, energy, and spacetime. 

## Key Concepts

### 1. **Wave Functions and Inertia**
   - **Hypothesis**: Inertia arises from wave functions emitted by mass, propagating outward at the speed of light (c). When a mass accelerates, the new wave emitted interacts with existing waves, causing resistance to motion. This hypothesis reframes inertia as a natural consequence of wave interaction, challenging traditional views on mass and motion.
   - **Application**: This framework could redefine how we understand force, acceleration, and momentum at macroscopic and quantum scales.

### 2. **Gravity and Gravitational Waves**
   - **Hypothesis**: Gravity is described as a field emitted by wave functions of mass. The interactions of these wave fields create gravitational effects that align with observations of spacetime warping and black hole phenomena.
   - **Exploration**: This approach allows for a continuous gravitational field even at the quantum level, suggesting a more unified view of mass and gravitational attraction.

### 3. **Dark Matter as Transient Wave Structures**
   - **Hypothesis**: Dark matter may consist of unstable wave functions or "proto-particles" that nearly form stable structures but decay quickly. These quasi-stable fields collectively create gravitational effects without interacting with light.
   - **Implications**: By modeling dark matter as transient wave structures, this theory offers a new perspective on the elusive nature of dark matter and its gravitational impact on the cosmos.

### 4. **Relativistic Time Dilation and Wave Compression**
   - **Hypothesis**: Time dilation with speed could emerge from the interaction and compression of wave functions at high velocities. As objects accelerate, the wave function’s oscillations slow, resulting in time dilation observed at relativistic speeds.
   - **Explanation**: This hypothesis reinterprets time as a function of wave interactions rather than a fixed component of spacetime, offering insights into time dilation as a wave-based phenomenon.

### 5. **Matter and Temperature at Quantum Scales**
   - **Concept**: Matter can be viewed as a “locus of oscillation” within a wave cell. At near-zero temperatures, the wave cell spreads, failing to localize the wave structure, which may explain the behavior of matter as it approaches absolute zero.

## Current Progress and Goals

This repository includes:
- **Hypothetical Frameworks**: Descriptions of wave-based models for inertia, gravity, and dark matter.
- **Mathematical and Computational Models**: Ongoing development of equations and simulations to test these theories.
- **Supporting Research**: Files and notes on alternative interpretations of quantum mechanics, relativistic physics, and cosmology.

## Contributing

Before we dive into the theory, a bit of housekeeping. This project is open to collaborative insights and suggestions. If you're interested in contributing to the Unified Field Theory development, please open a pull request or reach out with feedback!

- **To Discuss**        see [Discussions](https://github.com/cpsource/UFT/discussions)
- **Repository Issues** see [Issues](https://github.com/cpsource/UFT/issues)

## The Unified Field Theory (UFT) Framework

Current theories discuss free space. More detail here: [README-properties-of-free-space.md](https://t2m.io/pw6z7c7)

Fundamentally, this **Unified Field Theory (UFT)** proposes that every entity radiates a field outward at the speed of light, **c**. This framework will use the concept of this outward-radiating field to derive various effects that, today, are considered fundamental properties of matter.

Graphically, and simply, you can visualize this.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://unifyinggravity.com/theunatom.jpeg" width="200" alt="The Unatom Image">
</div>

(An interesting side note: depending on your monitor, you will see four interfearance patterns radiating outward at the four corners of the compass. It
has to do with the concentric circles being projected onto your monitors grid of pixels.)

Two atoms would interact with their projected fields. This can be visualized.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://unifyinggravity.com/twounatoms.jpeg" width="200" alt="The Unatom Image">
</div>

In the following sections, we will explore each of these effects in turn and demonstrate how they can be explained through the principles of **UFT**.

To dive into this project, step into each section in turn, as the following concepts will build on the preceding ones.

### Inertia

In classical thinking, inertia is defined as the resistance of a mass (a property) to a change in velocity. More detail here: [README-define-inertia.md](https://t2m.io/RWx6nNj)

Using **UFT** we define inertia as the interaction between a current radiated field and the next
one generated as the object moves. More detail here: [README-fascinating-hypothesis.md](https://t2m.io/iiFMKkO)
<br>
<br>
See also: [README-more-thinking.md](https://t2m.io/aLAOv3s)

### Mass

**UFT** defines mass. More detail here: [README-define-mass.md](https://t2m.io/e9RAVQW)

### Atomic Cohesion

**UFT** explains atomic cohesion. More detail here: [README-snow-plow-analogy.md](https://t2m.io/2t0iUHY)

### Electrostatic and Magnetic Forces

**UFT** explains electrostatic and magnetic forces. More detail here: [README-electrostatic-and-magnetic.md](https://t2m.io/BTMt6eW)

(Another curious side note: If you project a circular field onto a grid, you get something resembling a magnetic field. Consider
these two images:

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center;">
  <img src="http://unifyinggravity.com/earthmas.gif" width="200" alt="Earth Magnetism">
  <img src="https://unifyinggravity.com/magnetism.jpeg" width="200" alt="Magnetic Interfearance">
</div>

### Warping Space-Time

**UFT** Speaks to the warping of Space-Time. More details here: [README-space-time.md](https://t2m.io/zjVrZAT)

### Dark Matter

**UFT** sees dark matter as bits trying to become stable, but they mostly fail. More detail here: [README-dark-matter.md](https://t2m.io/dqht6sN)

### Quantum Entanglement

Classical quantum entanglement properties detailed here: [README-spooky-action.md](https://t2m.io/neagq7w)

**UFT** explains quantum entanglement. More detail here: [README-spooky-action-at-a-distance.md](https://t2m.io/i2Z6eqU) and here: [README-more-on-entanglement.md](https://t2m.io/mPQY3vd)

## Radioactive Decay

Classically, radioactive decay is detailed here: [README-decay.md](https://t2m.io/2oUoGUf)

**UFT** sees it somewhat differently. More details here: [README-decay-uft.md](https://t2m.io/ZMTFqh9)

### Bose–Einstein Condensate

**UFT** explains Bose-Einstein condensate. More detail here: [README-zero-k.md](https://t2m.io/JQCJn6p)

### Black Holes

Black holes do radiate heat. More detain here: [README-black-hole-heat.md](https://t2m.io/K3ybx2d)

**UFT** discusses black holes. More detains here: [README-more-on-black-holes.md](https://t2m.io/UL2rHD5)

### Relativism

**UFT** redefines thinking about relativism. More details here: [README-relativism.md](https://t2m.io/bcX9wFa)

### Time

**UFT** does not operate in the time dimension as time is considered a derived quantity.

Traditional theories have not settled on whether time moves in steps or transistions smoothly. More details here: [README-time-quanta.md](https://t2m.io/9qGjEnX)

How can we remove time from our considerations?

It's done all the time. In electrical engineering, we can move from the time domain to the frequency domain
using forier analysis.

Computing offers another example.

A digital computer lays out a problem in a series of time steps. More details here: [README-computing-stages.md](https://t2m.io/5zQ9i76)

However, we can remove time from the solution by considering an analog computer. More details here: [README-analog-computing.md](https://t2m.io/aftdKzA)

More details on this point are here: [README-more-on-time.md](https://t2m.io/rcuMkk8)

Time must be a relative quantity. When I look at the 'time' it took, we are comparing our 'time' with the 'time' of the observation. More details here: [README-time-is-relative.md](https://t2m.io/QK1xNy9)

Time must therefore be relative. More details here: [README-time-is-derived.md](https://t2m.io/u0WvK1q)

Finally, how does **UFT** relate? More details here: [README-time-and-my-theory.md](https://t2m.io/xMfBBn1)

<!--
#[README-more-on-time.md](https://t2m.io/rcuMkk8)
#[README-time-quanta.md](https://t2m.io/9qGjEnX)
#[README-time-is-relative.md](https://t2m.io/QK1xNy9)
#[README-time-is-derived.md](https://t2m.io/u0WvK1q)
#[README-computing-stages.md](https://t2m.io/5zQ9i76)
#[README-analog-computing.md](https://t2m.io/aftdKzA)
#[README-time-and-my-theory.md](https://t2m.io/xMfBBn1)
-->

### Derive $c$ Without Time

More details here: [README-derive-c-without-time.md](https://t2m.io/aYRXu7q)

## Derivations

**UFT** derives fundamentals such as:

- Derive $F = m \cdot a$ [See Derivation](https://t2m.io/i1SNwFO)
- Derive $F = \frac{G m_1 m_2}{r^2}$ [See Derivaton](https://t2m.io/qifOSa0)

## Explanations

### **UFT** Explains the double slit photon experiment

In this experiment, photons are beamed at a barrier with two slits, and the results are
projected onto a screen. Instead of seeing the photon as a particle, a wave pattern emerges.

Current physics writes this off as the duality of light without really offering an
underlying explanation. More details here: [README-light-experiments.md](https://t2m.io/bqi4qdA)

**Could my Unified Field Theory (UFT) explain the two-slit experiment without invoking wave-particle duality?**

In my UFT framework, a photon (or any particle) is defined not as a dual entity but as a single phenomenon characterized by continuous radiation. This radiation forms a “locus,” which we interpret as the particle itself. According to this view, when a photon moves through the slits in the two-slit experiment, its wave-like nature is naturally revealed due to the radiating field, rather than requiring duality.

In other words:
- The photon radiates continuously, forming a field with a specific locus that we perceive as the particle.
- As this radiation passes through the slits, it interacts with both slits simultaneously, producing the interference pattern in a way consistent with wave behavior.
- When we observe the photon on the screen, we identify a precise point within this radiative field, which appears as the “particle” without requiring it to switch between particle and wave states.

Could this framework of continuous radiation, defining the photon as a locus within a radiative field, account for the observed interference pattern in the two-slit experiment—thereby eliminating the need for wave-particle duality?

More details here [README-UFT-and-two-slit.md](https://t2m.io/SfQAqo1)

### The Michaelson-Morley experiment is consistent with **UFT**

In the context of the Unified Field Theory (UFT), the Michelson-Morley experiment can be reinterpreted by considering that light (or any particle) does not need a medium like the luminiferous aether because each photon, or particle, radiates its own wave field. Here’s how UFT could explain the key findings: [README-Michelson-Morley.md](https://t2m.io/LuZQfMB)

### Reexamine experiments

Unified Field Theory (UFT), offers fresh interpretations for several key experiments in physics.
These include:

1. **The Double-Slit Experiment**
2. **The Photoelectric Effect**
3. **Atomic Emission Spectra**
4. **Compton Scattering**
5. **Quantum Tunneling**
6. **Gravitational Lensing**
7. **Bell’s Theorem and Quantum Entanglement**
8. **Time Dilation and Relativistic Effects**

More details here: [README-reexamine-experiments.md](https://t2m.io/Rf6m3yR)

## Can photons travel at *c* yet have mass ?

In this thought experiment, let’s consider **particle** p₁, a particle with very small mass that, despite its mass, still travels at the speed of light *c*. This is an intriguing scenario because, under classical relativity, a particle with mass cannot reach *c*. However, in the framework of **Unified Field Theory (UFT)**, we can imagine it as a special case where p₁ carries an energy density wave structure, similar to that of a photon but with a small mass component.

Here's a chain of thinking (to be read in order) that gets **UFT** to this position. (We start out at neutrons but move on to photons.) [README-neutrinos.md](https://t2m.io/LBWfo9z)

## Tessellation and Quantum Mechanics

Only certain shapes can completely cover a sphere. **UFT** assigns energy levels to these shapes, and then relates it to Quantum Mechancs.

Read the chain starting here for the development of this concept. [README-tessellation.md](https://t2m.io/aBLTXUM)

## A Random Walk Through the Sub-Atomic

Take a random walk (with some neat simulations for Mathematica) through a chain of the sub-atomic at [README-influence-sub-atomic.md](https://t2m.io/49ADkFq)

## Exploration

Lets explore the hierarchical structure of the universe, starting from the smallest quantum scales and building up through molecular, biological, geological, planetary, and cosmic levels. Each scale operates with unique principles but relies on the foundational rules of previous levels, creating an interdependent system where phenomena like entropy and energy flow across scales. We used graph theory, specifically directed acyclic graphs (DAGs), to illustrate direct and indirect influences between these groups, highlighting how simpler structures give rise to complexity. We examined entropy’s role in increasing disorder and energy’s cumulative presence from atomic particles to galaxies, estimating that the observable universe’s energy—largely originating from the Big Bang—matches predictions based on mass-energy and dark energy distributions today. This layered approach reveals the interconnected nature of physical laws across the scales of existence.

These are to be read in order. At the bottom of each file, just click 'Next' to move on.
<br>
[README-what-is-a-hypergraph.md](https://t2m.io/6z1nvAg)
<br>
[README-what-is-a-graph.md](https://t2m.io/7giHXoX)
<br>
[README-scale-of-things.md](https://t2m.io/41JNV1n)
<br>
[README-groups-of-scale.md](https://t2m.io/7pDT7rR)
<br>
[README-cascading-groups.md](https://t2m.io/XsZWKCp)
<br>
[README-groups-directed-graph.md](https://t2m.io/oA75fxR)
<br>
[README-direct-and-indirect-influences.md](https://t2m.io/hd2PC9A)
<br>
[README-dag-tutorial.md](https://t2m.io/XjHst3Z)
<br>
[README-direct-indirect-influences-by-group.md](https://t2m.io/BVB40NC)
<br>
[README-entropy.md](https://t2m.io/CGdFJ2T)
<br>
[README-total-energy.md](https://t2m.io/cYHPRCJ)
<br>
[README-big-bang-energy.md](https://t2m.io/64uCkBz)
<br>
[README-summary.md](https://t2m.io/8YPd9V1)

<!--
[README-summarize.md](https://t2m.io/Q0tp15y)
-->

## Miscellaneous Musings and work in progress.

What are the implications if we redefine c? [Click Here](https://t2m.io/7SAxanm)
<br>
What about 720-degree symmetry? [Click Here](https://t2m.io/RxdfOLQ)

<!--
## Concepts in no particular order (TODO - Organize!)
[README-relativism.md](https://t2m.io/bcX9wFa)
[README-decay.md](https://t2m.io/2oUoGUf)
[README-decay-uft.md](https://t2m.io/ZMTFqh9)
[README-derive-c-without-time.md](https://t2m.io/aYRXu7q)
[README-space-time.md](https://t2m.io/zjVrZAT)
[README-define-mass.md](https://t2m.io/e9RAVQW)
[README-more-thinking.md](https://t2m.io/aLAOv3s)
[README-properties-of-free-space.md](https://t2m.io/pw6z7c7)
[README-black-hole-heat.md](https://t2m.io/K3ybx2d)
[README-more-on-black-holes.md](https://t2m.io/UL2rHD5)
[README-spooky-action.md](https://t2m.io/neagq7w)
[README-zero-k.md](https://t2m.io/JQCJn6p)
[README-spooky-action-at-a-distance.md](https://t2m.io/i2Z6eqU)
[README-more-on-entanglement.md](https://t2m.io/mPQY3vd)
[README-dark-matter.md](https://t2m.io/dqht6sN)
[README-electrostatic-and-magnetic.md](https://t2m.io/BTMt6eW)
[README-define-inertia.md](https://t2m.io/RWx6nNj)
[README-snow-plow-analogy.md](https://t2m.io/2t0iUHY)
[README-derive-f.md](https://t2m.io/qifOSa0)
[README-derive-fema.md](https://t2m.io/i1SNwFO)
[README-fascinating-hypothesis.md](https://t2m.io/iiFMKkO)
-->

## License

This work is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)**. You are free to share and adapt the material as long as appropriate credit is given.

## About

[About](https://t2m.io/KTAZ44M)

---

*“UFT: Presenting a Unified Field Theory, Now Revealed”*

---

[Podcast](https://cpsource.github.io/UFT/podcast.html)
