[https://www.wolframalpha.com/input?i=physical+laws](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input?i=physical+laws)

# This note includes laws of physics we would examine with **UFT**

---
## Laws of Physics

* Ampère's circuital law
* Ampère's force law
* Bernoulli's principle
* Biot-Savart law
* Coulomb's law
* Faraday's law of induction
* fluctuation dissipation theorem
* Fourier's law
* Gauss's law
* Hooke's law
* inverse-square law
* Joule's first law
* Joule's second law
* Kepler's first law
* Kepler's second law
* Kepler's third law
* Kirchhoff's current law
* Kirchhoff's voltage law
* Lenz's law
* Malus's law
* Newton's first law
* Newton's second law
* Newton's third law
* strong form of Newton's third law
* Newton's law of universal gravitation
* Ohm's law
* Richardson's law
* Zeroth Law of Thermodynamics
* First Law of Thermodynamics
* Second Law of Thermodynamics
* Third Law of Thermodynamics
* Watt's law for electrical power
* Watt's law for steam

(TODO - Format)<
Descriptions
------------

### Ampère's circuital law
Ampère's circuital law is the physical law relating the integrated magnetic field around a closed loop to the electric current passing through the loop.

### Ampère's force law
Ampère's force law is the physical law giving the force of attraction or repulsion between two current-carrying wires in the magnetostatic approximation.

### Bernoulli's principle
Bernoulli's principle states that, for inviscid flow, an increase in the speed of the fluid occurs simultaneously with a decrease in pressure or a decrease in the fluid's potential energy.

### Biot-Savart law
The Biot-Savart law is the basic physical law relating magnetic fields to electric currents that produce them (in the magnetostatic approximation).

### Coulomb's law
Coulomb's law states that the magnitude of the electrostatic force between two point electric charges is directly proportional to the product of the magnitudes of each of the charges and inversely proportional to the square of the total distance between the two charges.

### Faraday's law of induction
Faraday's law of induction states that induced electromotive force or EMF in any closed circuit is equal to the time rate of change of the magnetic flux through the circuit.

### Fluctuation dissipation theorem
In physics, the fluctuation dissipation theorem states that the fluctuations in a system at thermal equilibrium are related to the response of the system under applied perturbation by S_x(ω) = 2kTIm(χ^~(ω))/ω, where χ^~(ω) is the Fourier transform of the linear response function χ(t) of the system.

### Fourier's law
In physics, Fourier's law states that heat flux through a material is proportional to the negative temperature gradient through which the heat flows.

### Gauss's law
In physics, Gauss's law states that the electric flux through any closed surface is proportional to the enclosed electric charge.

### Hooke's law
Hooke's law of elasticity is the physical law which states that the extension of a spring is directly proportional to the force applied.

### Inverse-square law
In physics, an inverse-square law holds for a physical quantity whose intensity is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source.

### Joule's first law
Joule's first law expresses the relationship between the heat Q generated by and current I flowing through a conductor with resistance R for time t as Q = I^2Rt.

### Joule's second law
Joule's second law states that the internal energy of an ideal gas is independent of its volume and pressure, depending only on its temperature.

### Kepler's first law
Kepler's first law states that the orbit of every planet is an ellipse with the sun at a focus.

### Kepler's second law
Kepler's second law states that the line joining a planet and the sun sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time.

### Kepler's third law
Kepler's third law states that the square of the orbital period of a planet is directly proportional to the cube of the semimajor axis of its orbit.

### Kirchhoff's current law
In physics, Kirchhoff's current law states that any node in an electrical circuit, the sum of currents flowing into that node is equal to the sum of currents flowing out of that node.

### Kirchhoff's voltage law
In physics, Kirchhoff's voltage law states that the signed sum of the voltages around any closed circuit must be zero.

### Lenz's law
In physics, Lenz's law states that an induced current always occurs in a direction that opposes the motion or change causing it.

### Malus's law
In physics, Malus's law states that a polarized beam of light passing through a perfect polarizer has intensity I given by I = I_0cos^2(θ_i), where I_0 is the initial intensity and θ_i is the angle between the light's initial polarization direction and the axis of the polarizer.

## Alternate names for these laws

| Name                   | Alternate Name                                            |
|:-----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|
| Ampère's circuital law | Ampère's law |
| Ampère's force law | Ampère's law |
| Bernoulli's principle | Bernoulli's law |
| Coulomb's law | Coulomb law |
| Fourier's law | Fourier's law of conduction, law of heat conduction, law of thermal conduction |
| Gauss's law | Gauss's flux theorem |
| Hooke's law | Hooke's law of elasticity |
| Joule's first law | Joule effect , Joule-Lenz law |
| Kepler's second law | law of equal areas |
| Kepler's third law | harmonic law |
| Kirchhoff's current law | KCL , Kirchhoff's first rule , Kirchhoff's junction rule , Kirchhoff's nodal rule , Kirchhff's point rule | 
| Kirchhoff's voltage law | Kirchhoff's loop rule , Kirchhoff's mesh rule , Kirchhoff's second rule , KVL|
| Newton's first law | law of inertia |
| Newton's law of universal gravitation | Newton's fourth law (although this term is better not used for epistemological reasons) |
| Second Law of Thermodynamics | Clausius statement of the Second Law , Kelvin statement of the Second Law |
| Third Law of Thermodynamics | Nernst's postulate , Nernst's theorem |

